doc/src/installation.md, before:

# Installation

## NixOS

You can install Stylix into your NixOS configuration using [Flakes][nix-flakes].
This will provide theming for system level programs such as bootloaders, splash
screens, and display managers.

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable";
    stylix = {
      url = "github:nix-community/stylix";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
  };

  outputs =
    { nixpkgs, stylix, ... }:
    {
      nixosConfigurations."«hostname»" = nixpkgs.lib.nixosSystem {
        system = "x86_64-linux";
        modules = [
          stylix.nixosModules.stylix
          ./configuration.nix
        ];
      };
    };
}
```
<small>Minimal `flake.nix` for a NixOS configuration.</small>

If you are using a stable release of NixOS, ensure that you use the matching
Stylix release. For example:

```nix
{
  nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-25.11";
  stylix.url = "github:nix-community/stylix/release-25.11";
}
```

Many applications cannot be configured system wide, so Stylix will also need
[Home Manager][nix-hm] to be able to change their settings within your home
directory.

[Installing Home Manager as a NixOS module](https://nix-community.github.io/home-manager/index.xhtml#sec-install-nixos-module)
is highly recommended if you don't use it already. This will combine it with
your existing configuration, so you don't need to run any extra commands when
you rebuild, and the theme you set in NixOS will automatically be used for Home
Manager too.

When Stylix is installed and enabled in a NixOS configuration, it will
automatically set up its Home Manager modules if it detects that Home Manager
is available. You can theoretically use it without installing Home Manager,
however most features will be unavailable.

## nix-darwin

You can install Stylix into your nix-darwin configuration in a similar fashion
to NixOS via [Flakes][nix-flakes].

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable";
    darwin = {
      url = "github:nix-darwin/nix-darwin";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
    stylix = {
      url = "github:nix-community/stylix";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
  };

  outputs =
    {
      darwin,
      stylix,
      ...
    }:
    {
      darwinConfigurations."«hostname»" = darwin.lib.darwinSystem {
        system = "aarch64-darwin";
        modules = [
          stylix.darwinModules.stylix
          ./configuration.nix
        ];
      };
    };
}
```
<small>Minimal `flake.nix` for a nix-darwin configuration.</small>

While this won't have an effect on the looks of MacOS, since we don't have the
controls to theme it like we do NixOS, it will automatically set up the [Home
Manager][nix-hm] modules for you.

## Nix-on-Droid

You can install Stylix into your
[Nix-on-Droid](https://github.com/nix-community/nix-on-droid) configuration in a
similar fashion to NixOS via [Flakes][nix-flakes].

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable";
    nix-on-droid = {
      url = "github:nix-community/nix-on-droid";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
    stylix = {
      url = "github:nix-community/stylix";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
  };

  outputs =
    {
      nix-on-droid,
      nixpkgs,
      stylix,
      ...
    }:
    {
      nixOnDroidConfigurations.default = nix-on-droid.lib.nixOnDroidConfiguration {
        pkgs = nixpkgs.legacyPackages."aarch64-linux";
        modules = [
          stylix.nixOnDroidModules.stylix
          ./nix-on-droid.nix
        ];
      };
    };
}
```
<small>Minimal `flake.nix` for a Nix-on-Droid configuration.</small>

This will apply your configured color scheme and monospace font to the
nix-on-droid terminal. If [Home Manager integration for
Nix-on-Droid](https://github.com/nix-community/nix-on-droid#home-manager-integration)
is used, Stylix will automatically set up the [Home Manager][nix-hm] modules for
you.

## Home Manager

If you would prefer to use the standalone version of Home Manager, you can
install Stylix directly into your Home Manager configuration instead. This could
be useful if you are on another operating system, or a machine which is managed
by someone else.

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable";
    home-manager = {
      url = "github:nix-community/home-manager";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
    stylix = {
      url = "github:nix-community/stylix";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
  };

  outputs =
    {
      nixpkgs,
      home-manager,
      stylix,
      ...
    }:
    {
      homeConfigurations."«username»" = home-manager.lib.homeManagerConfiguration {
        pkgs = nixpkgs.legacyPackages.x86_64-linux;
        modules = [
          stylix.homeModules.stylix
          ./home.nix
        ];
      };
    };
}
```
<small>Minimal `flake.nix` for a Home Manager configuration.</small>

If you are using a stable release of Home Manager, ensure that you use the
matching Stylix release. For example:

```nix
{
  nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-25.11";
  home-manager.url = "github:nix-community/home-manager/release-25.11";
  stylix.url = "github:nix-community/stylix/release-25.11";
}
```

If you choose to use both NixOS and Home Manager but configure them separately,
you will need to copy your theme into both of your configurations, as keeping
them separate means they cannot follow each other automatically.

## Without flakes

If you haven't enabled flakes yet or don't want to use this feature,
`default.nix` re-exports all the flake outputs, without requiring flakes to be
enabled. This means that once you have a copy of this repo, using either a local
checkout, [niv](https://github.com/nmattia/niv), or any other method, you can
import it to get the NixOS module as the `nixosModules.stylix` attribute and the
Home Manager module as the `homeModules.stylix` attribute.

```nix
{ pkgs, ... }:
let
  stylix = pkgs.fetchFromGitHub {
    owner = "nix-community";
    repo = "stylix";
    rev = "...";
    sha256 = "...";
  };
in
{
  imports = [ (import stylix).homeModules.stylix ];

  stylix = {
    enable = true;
    image = ./wallpaper.jpg;
  };
}
```
<small>Example usage of the Home Manager module without flakes.</small>

[nix-flakes]: https://wiki.nixos.org/wiki/Flakes
[nix-hm]: https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager

Commit message:

doc/src/installation: note master branch follows rolling-release model  (#2116)
Link: https://github.com/nix-community/stylix/pull/2116

Co-authored-by: NAHO <90870942+trueNAHO@users.noreply.github.com>

doc/src/installation.md, after:

# Installation

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The master (unstable) branch of Stylix follows a rolling-release model. To
> ensure version compatibility, all inputs must be kept in sync.
>
> Avoid partial updates and always update inputs together with:
>
> ```console
> nix flake update
> ```

## NixOS

You can install Stylix into your NixOS configuration using [Flakes][nix-flakes].
This will provide theming for system level programs such as bootloaders, splash
screens, and display managers.

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable";
    stylix = {
      url = "github:nix-community/stylix";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
  };

  outputs =
    { nixpkgs, stylix, ... }:
    {
      nixosConfigurations."«hostname»" = nixpkgs.lib.nixosSystem {
        system = "x86_64-linux";
        modules = [
          stylix.nixosModules.stylix
          ./configuration.nix
        ];
      };
    };
}
```
<small>Minimal `flake.nix` for a NixOS configuration.</small>

If you are using a stable release of NixOS, ensure that you use the matching
Stylix release. For example:

```nix
{
  nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-25.11";
  stylix.url = "github:nix-community/stylix/release-25.11";
}
```

Many applications cannot be configured system wide, so Stylix will also need
[Home Manager][nix-hm] to be able to change their settings within your home
directory.

[Installing Home Manager as a NixOS module](https://nix-community.github.io/home-manager/index.xhtml#sec-install-nixos-module)
is highly recommended if you don't use it already. This will combine it with
your existing configuration, so you don't need to run any extra commands when
you rebuild, and the theme you set in NixOS will automatically be used for Home
Manager too.

When Stylix is installed and enabled in a NixOS configuration, it will
automatically set up its Home Manager modules if it detects that Home Manager
is available. You can theoretically use it without installing Home Manager,
however most features will be unavailable.

## nix-darwin

You can install Stylix into your nix-darwin configuration in a similar fashion
to NixOS via [Flakes][nix-flakes].

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable";
    darwin = {
      url = "github:nix-darwin/nix-darwin";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
    stylix = {
      url = "github:nix-community/stylix";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
  };

  outputs =
    {
      darwin,
      stylix,
      ...
    }:
    {
      darwinConfigurations."«hostname»" = darwin.lib.darwinSystem {
        system = "aarch64-darwin";
        modules = [
          stylix.darwinModules.stylix
          ./configuration.nix
        ];
      };
    };
}
```
<small>Minimal `flake.nix` for a nix-darwin configuration.</small>

While this won't have an effect on the looks of MacOS, since we don't have the
controls to theme it like we do NixOS, it will automatically set up the [Home
Manager][nix-hm] modules for you.

## Nix-on-Droid

You can install Stylix into your
[Nix-on-Droid](https://github.com/nix-community/nix-on-droid) configuration in a
similar fashion to NixOS via [Flakes][nix-flakes].

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable";
    nix-on-droid = {
      url = "github:nix-community/nix-on-droid";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
    stylix = {
      url = "github:nix-community/stylix";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
  };

  outputs =
    {
      nix-on-droid,
      nixpkgs,
      stylix,
      ...
    }:
    {
      nixOnDroidConfigurations.default = nix-on-droid.lib.nixOnDroidConfiguration {
        pkgs = nixpkgs.legacyPackages."aarch64-linux";
        modules = [
          stylix.nixOnDroidModules.stylix
          ./nix-on-droid.nix
        ];
      };
    };
}
```
<small>Minimal `flake.nix` for a Nix-on-Droid configuration.</small>

This will apply your configured color scheme and monospace font to the
nix-on-droid terminal. If [Home Manager integration for
Nix-on-Droid](https://github.com/nix-community/nix-on-droid#home-manager-integration)
is used, Stylix will automatically set up the [Home Manager][nix-hm] modules for
you.

## Home Manager

If you would prefer to use the standalone version of Home Manager, you can
install Stylix directly into your Home Manager configuration instead. This could
be useful if you are on another operating system, or a machine which is managed
by someone else.

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable";
    home-manager = {
      url = "github:nix-community/home-manager";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
    stylix = {
      url = "github:nix-community/stylix";
      inputs.nixpkgs.follows = "nixpkgs";
    };
  };

  outputs =
    {
      nixpkgs,
      home-manager,
      stylix,
      ...
    }:
    {
      homeConfigurations."«username»" = home-manager.lib.homeManagerConfiguration {
        pkgs = nixpkgs.legacyPackages.x86_64-linux;
        modules = [
          stylix.homeModules.stylix
          ./home.nix
        ];
      };
    };
}
```
<small>Minimal `flake.nix` for a Home Manager configuration.</small>

If you are using a stable release of Home Manager, ensure that you use the
matching Stylix release. For example:

```nix
{
  nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-25.11";
  home-manager.url = "github:nix-community/home-manager/release-25.11";
  stylix.url = "github:nix-community/stylix/release-25.11";
}
```

If you choose to use both NixOS and Home Manager but configure them separately,
you will need to copy your theme into both of your configurations, as keeping
them separate means they cannot follow each other automatically.

## Without flakes

If you haven't enabled flakes yet or don't want to use this feature,
`default.nix` re-exports all the flake outputs, without requiring flakes to be
enabled. This means that once you have a copy of this repo, using either a local
checkout, [niv](https://github.com/nmattia/niv), or any other method, you can
import it to get the NixOS module as the `nixosModules.stylix` attribute and the
Home Manager module as the `homeModules.stylix` attribute.

```nix
{ pkgs, ... }:
let
  stylix = pkgs.fetchFromGitHub {
    owner = "nix-community";
    repo = "stylix";
    rev = "...";
    sha256 = "...";
  };
in
{
  imports = [ (import stylix).homeModules.stylix ];

  stylix = {
    enable = true;
    image = ./wallpaper.jpg;
  };
}
```
<small>Example usage of the Home Manager module without flakes.</small>

[nix-flakes]: https://wiki.nixos.org/wiki/Flakes
[nix-hm]: https://github.com/nix-community/home-manager
